Hello, everyone. Welcome to a new episode of The
Dissenter. I'm your host, as always, Ricardo Lops, and
today I'm joined by a return guest, Doctor Mark
Alfano. He's professor of philosophy at Macquarie University, and
today we're talking about his book, Nietzsche on Virtue.
So, Doctor Alfano, welcome back to the show. It's
always a pleasure to everyone. Thank
you so much, Ricardo. It's really nice to be
back.
OK, so, start by telling us about the premise
of the book and the kinds of goals you
add with it and also the methodology you apply
there because you apply a kind of digital humanities
methodology, right? So tell us all about that.
Yeah, um, so the The thing that's disappointed me
in the Nietzsche literature for, for years is that
people tend to kind of like cherry pick just
a few passages when they want to interpret what
he has to say about different topics in moral
psychology, virtue ethics, virtue epistemology, and, and other areas.
Um, SO I, I wanted to do something more
systematic. Um, SO, I basically got my computer to
read everything that he ever published, and to look
for what he talked about when he talked about
virtue. So it's a it's called a co-location analysis,
so like in the same paragraph or the same
sentence, what else is going on when Nietzsche talks
about virtue, um. And um this kind of led
me to conclude that Nietzsche is a kind of
virtue theorist, even if um a lot of people
think that he's a nihilist or he doesn't have
any kind of positive ethics or epistemology. Um, AND
in particular that he's interested in virtues like curiosity,
intellectual courage, having a sense of humor, um, what
he calls solitude or einssukeit, um, which is this
disposition to sort of criticize your own in-group and
not take for granted what you're raised with, um,
and, uh, Obviously, the computer can't do all the
reading for you. So, I, I went and close
read all the passages as well. Um, BUT this
revealed to me that there was a lot that
was missing from the existing literature. Um, SO, that's
what I tried to, to do in this book
was to sort of show people like, well, here's
the stuff that we, we haven't been talking about.
Um, AND it's actually quite interesting. I mean, N
Nietzsche is a strange Figure in many ways, you
know, I, I don't think that he's right about
everything. I don't think he's right about most things,
actually. Uh, BUT when he is insightful, then he's
often very insightful. Um, AND about these things, like
sense of humor, uh, intellectual courage, curiosity, solitude, I
think he's very insightful.
OK, but what are virtues according to Nietzsche, and
we're going to also break it down a little
bit as we go through the questions, but what
are virtues?
Yeah, so, so he's interesting in this regard, because
um, In virtue theory nowadays, and probably historically, uh,
going back at least to Aristotle, um, virtues are
thought of as these, um, acquired, um, habits of
character. Um, THAT are admirable and praiseworthy, um. And
um that they are the, the same for everyone.
So, what counts as a virtue for me is
also what counts as a virtue for you. It
might get expressed somewhat differently, um, depending on our
upbringing or acculturation, and so on. Um, BUT like,
uh, you know, honesty is just a virtue for
everybody. Um. Courage, uh, virtue for everybody, open-mindedness, virtue
for everybody. Um, FOR, for Nietzsche, um, things are
a little bit more complicated. So, he thinks that,
um, virtues are drives, um, and specifically that they're
drives that Um, are characteristic of the individual as
opposed to universal across all people. Um, AND he
thinks some of these drives are instincts, so they're
natural, like that, you're born with them, as opposed
to something that you might acquire through habituation. Uh,
AND some of them are acquired, and, um, when
they are sort of firing together in a way
that Um, is consistent, then that makes them virtues
for that individual. So, whether a particular drive that
I have counts as a virtue is not a
matter of what is kind of, uh, internal to
it, but much more a matter of how it's
related to my other drives and how they are
functioning. So, there's a kind of, um, harmony that
is Required for a drive to count as a
virtue. Um, THIS, I think, is, is kind of
a unique view. It, it, um, It's not that
different from what you see in Menza, um, the
Chinese philosopher, um, so he had this idea that
there's sprouts of virtue, uh, but he thought everyone
had the same sprouts. So what's distinctive about N
Nietzsche is he thinks like, It, it, we don't
all have the same sprouts, and so what will
be a virtue for me might not be a
virtue for you. Um, I hope I'm addressing your
question,
yes, but, but let me just ask you a
couple of follow-up questions. So what is exactly the
relationship between drives and virtues according to Nietzsche?
So, so for Nietzsche, a drive um is a
disposition to um thought, feeling. Action and evaluation, um,
and When someone has a drive that counts as
a virtue, it's one that leads them to engage
in Um, Engage their own agency in a way
that is consistent with the other drives that they
have. So he's especially concerned about drives where it's
like, If I express drive A, then that stymies
drive B. Um, SO, um, I end up undermining
my own agency. Um, BUT, um, when the drives
are sort of operating in tandem with each other
in a way that's at least harmonious, um, or
sometimes even, um, expressing one amounts to expressing one
of the others, then for him that would count
as a virtue.
OK. And what are the types and what different
types of people are there?
Yeah, so, um, in, in the book, I argue
that N Nietzsche has a, a type specific or
a type relativized notion of virtue, and the, the
basic idea there is that someone's type is the
set of their drives, which could include both instincts
and acquired drives. Um, AND different people belong to
different types if they have different sets of drives.
So like if I have drives A, B, and
C, and you have drives B, C, and D,
then we have similar types, but not, not identical
types. Um, AND if I have drives A, B,
and C, and you have X, Y, and Z,
then we have completely different types. Um. So, some
other philosophers have written about Nietzsche on on types
and suggested that he only distinguishes between like higher
and lower, as if there were only two. BUT
he actually, at one point, he, he talks about,
um, an enchanting abundance of types. And so he
thinks there's, there's a lot of diversity in human
dispositions, and that that is itself worth, um, Investigation
and even celebration. Um And he thinks that Because
of this diversity of types, there will be many,
many different ways to be virtuous, depending on which
type someone happens to embody. Um, HE, he, he,
he talks about his own type quite a bit.
Um, SO that's where things like curiosity, intellectual courage,
sense of humor, and so on come into play.
But what's interesting is that he thinks that like,
if that's not for you, that's fine. Like, you
can have your own. Set of virtues, and you
are not required. In any sense to embody the
same virtues as someone else.
Right, so tell us perhaps as an example about
his own type. I mean, how does he talk
about his own type and What are then the
virtues that are fitting and conducive to flourishing for
Nietzsche's style.
Um, SO he, he has this kind of notion
of, um, A certain kind of cruel curiosity, which
might not sound very nice, um, but, uh, this
is connected with his stuff about will to power.
So, um, when he talks about will to power,
it often is a matter of overcoming resistance, and
he thinks that at least for people like him,
not necessarily for others, but for people like him,
um, Recognizing and fully appreciating what is most um
embarrassing and shameful about oneself and one's in-group is
very difficult. And in order to overcome that resistance,
to overcome that challenge, um, one needs curiosity, so
the desire to find things out, to engage in
inquiry and recognize that you don't already know what
you might think you know, um, as well as
intellectual courage, which is a matter of facing up
to these challenges, uh, and not, um, shying away
from them, um, as well as, uh, sense of
humor. So, you might think sense of humor has
nothing to do with epistemology. Um, BUT for Nietzsche,
it, it's actually Um, deeply related to, um, To
epistemology, because having a sense of humor, especially the
ability to laugh at oneself. Um, IS a way
of overcoming that kind of resistance, because if you're
self-protective, if you don't want to, um, acknowledge the
things that are bad or shameful or embarrassing about
yourself, um, That makes it very difficult to, to
acquire self-knowledge, um. But if you're able to laugh
at yourself, um, then you can sort of recognize
that kind of thing, and um, Acknowledge it and
maybe even overcome it in certain cases. Um, AND,
and solitude is related to this as well, because
Um, sense of humor is more about being able
to laugh at me. Um, AND solitude for Nietzsche
is being able to laugh at and not take
too seriously us as an in-group. Um, AND I
think this is actually one of the reasons why
he's often very, very critical of the Germans, because,
uh, he wants to sort of poke holes and
poke fun at. Um, HIS own in-group. Um, SO
he's, he's much more critical of, of the Germans
than the French or the English or any other
group, essentially, uh, because he, he knows that, um,
these ties of upbringing and blood and nationality and
things like that, um, make it very difficult for
people to see what is wrong with their own
community.
Right. So in the book you refer to pro-Christian
moralism. So what is that and tell us about
how it is life denying.
Yeah, so the, the myth of Procrustes comes from
ancient Greece. He was this kind of bandit character,
um, in, in Greek mythology. He would invite you
into his home, uh, and then say like, oh,
you can stay here in this bedroom, here's your
bed. Um, AND then it would turn out that
you were either too tall or too short for
the bed. And if you were too tall, he
would cut your feet off. And if you were
too short, he would um stretch you, and in
either case, he would kill you. Um, SO, the,
the, the myth of Procrustes has to do with
this notion of like, forcing everyone to be the
same. Um, HAVING this normative ideal that insists that
everybody ought to be alike. Um, AND in a
couple of places, Nietzsche talks about Procrustian morality. Um,
AND he's been interpreted to, to think that, um,
There's just something wrong with morality as such. But
the way I interpret him is he's saying, no,
the morality is fine, um, it's just that we
shouldn't insist that everyone be the same. And we
should recognize human diversity and acknowledge that um what
counts as being a good person for me might
be different from what counts as being a good
person for you, which might be different from what
counts as being a good person for, you know,
my sister, and so on. Um, SO, so this,
um, Procrustian thing has to do with types, uh,
as, as we discussed a little bit. So, Different
people have different types, and to try to force
people to all be the same type is the
thing that Nietzsche is objecting to.
OK, so earlier we talked about the relationship between
drives and virtues. How is the development and evaluation
of our drives related to our social relationships?
Yeah, so this is an interesting thing in Nietzsche.
So he, um, He has this idea that um
the attribution of traits to people, including drives, including
Uh, virtues, including also vices, um, often functions to
some extent like a self-fulfilling prophecy. So, if you
see something in me and you say like, oh,
Mark, you're very curious, then I might think, oh
well, maybe I am. Um, AND then I, I
take that on as part of my self-concept, and
I start to act more that way, and then
I feel good about doing that, and I end
up actually becoming more like that. Um, THE same
thing can happen with vices. Uh, SO when we
tell someone, you know, uh, that they're a coward,
um, that might make them more cowardly. Um, It
it, it's not like, uh, magic. It has to
do with how people think of themselves, their, um,
what they know others to expect from them, um,
and how they feel about their own behavior. Um,
BUT to some extent, this actually seems to be
empirically borne out. So, there are a bunch of
studies which I, I cited in a previous book,
um, That suggests that actually you get a small
effect out of this kind of self-fulfilling prophecy thing,
where if a trusted Source tells you that you're
a certain way, then you, then you think to
yourself like, oh, maybe I am that way, maybe,
maybe I should be more that way. Um, AND,
and people sort of talk themselves into and talk
each other into, um, acquiring traits that they may
be halfway possessed, uh, but then come to fully
possess.
Mm, OK. And I mean, when it comes to
the different types of people we talked about, how
can one understand one's own type? How can we
acquire this kind of self-knowledge?
Yeah, it's a really interesting question. Um, INTROSPECTION is
pretty bad. Um, SO, I think, um, Just speaking
from the empirical literature rather than from Nietzsche here,
um, a lot of it has to do with
Seeing yourself in the mirror of another person who
Empathically and sympathetically engages with you and Either tells
you or shows you. What they think you are.
Um, THIS is an idea that, um, is pretty
similar to what John Doris, um, explores in his
book, um, Talking to Ourselves. Um, HE has this
idea that we, we sort of negotiate our identity.
It's not something that's kind of fixed. It's something
that's partially inchoate, and then by Engaging with others
and finding out how they interpret us and either
accepting or rejecting or negotiating their interpretation, we become
the kind of people that we are.
Mhm. And I mean, what is the role, because
you also talked about this, about this in the
book, what is the role that shame, curiosity, and
intellectual courage play in acquiring this kind of self-knowledge?
So shame in particular is interesting in Nietzsche because
um he distinguishes between a current shame, which is
like this felt emotion, on the one hand. And
um having a sense of shame, on the other
hand, um, And the basic idea there is that
um if someone has a Sense of shame that
will lead them to anticipate. What sorts of things
they might do or say or feel that would
lead them to feel a current shame. And to
avoid those things. Um, SO to be shameless is
to not anticipate, um, those thoughts, feelings, actions, behaviors,
um, and so on. And This sense of shame,
at least for Nietzsche, um, is actually a way
for people to see what is Problematic in their
own character, and to improve it in advance without
having to go through the messy process of Doing
wrong or doing badly, and then be uh publicly
shamed.
Mhm. And what about the role of a sense
of humor? What role can it play here in
our understanding of our own type?
Um, SO the way I understand N Nietzsche on
humor is that, um, It introduces some kind of
levity, it introduces a kind of lightness, not taking
things seriously, um, and he's especially interested in cases
where people are able to laugh at themselves. Um,
IF you think about someone who's like incapable of
laughing at themselves, you're probably thinking of a bad
person, right? So, for, for him, um, having a
sense of humor, especially about oneself, is a way
of distinguishing between what is fixed in my personality
or character on the one hand, and what can
be changed, and when the stuff that can be
changed is Bad or contemptible or laughable, um, not
being so self-serious, uh, that I can't just say
like, oh yeah, I'm just, I won't do that
anymore. I won't be like that anymore. Um, IT'S
when people think that Everything about them is fixed,
that it becomes hard to um Hard to change.
So, um, Having a sense of humor for Nietzsche
is, um, I, I would say is a matter
of being able to See what's essential to me
and what is not essential to me, and when
the non-essential stuff is bad, uh, or contemptible, just
throw it away, no big deal.
Mhm. And what about the role of curiosity and
intellectual courage, because I think that I asked you
about that earlier, but you only referred to shame,
so how about those two?
Yeah, sorry, um. So Curiosity, um, has been, um.
Articulated in a lot of ways. So like, you,
you can be curious in the sense that you
want to try like a new cuisine or listen
to new music. Um, THAT'S a kind of experiential
curiosity. Um. And of course, Nietzsche recognizes that, um,
but when he talks about curiosity, he's primarily interested
in curiosity that's related to inquiry. So, hm. ASKING.
Questions that are hard to answer. And then going
about the work of actually Answering them as best
one can. And questions can be hard in lots
of different ways, so like, we still don't know
whether gold box conjecture is true. Um, THAT'S a
really hard question. Um, BUT there are other kinds
of questions that are hard to answer for other
reasons, um, and, and N Nietzsche seems to be
especially interested in questions that are hard to answer
because the answers make us uncomfortable. Questions where if
we really admitted the truth, we would feel bad
about ourselves or our families, or our countries, or
our communities more broadly. Um, AND that's a different
kind of difficulty from just really hard math. Um,
SORRY, you asked about something else as well, which
I still didn't address.
Uh, INTELLECTUAL courage and curiosity.
Yeah, OK, so, So hopefully I said something intelligible
about curiosity, um. Intellectual courage is also interesting for
Nietzsche because um He, he thinks that um there's
a kind of eppistemic fear that people face when
they deal with questions that are related to their
identity. So, either their identity as um individuals or
their identity as members of a group or community.
And um When he praises intellectual courage, he's often
talking about The courage that people have when they
Face those questions and still try to answer them
honestly.
Mhm. And I mean, how should we deal with
people who are of different types than us, because
I mean if different people are of different types
and if different types would correspond for Nietzsche to
different sets of virtues, I mean, many times there
would be a sort of mismatch there, right.
Yeah, so, the, the stuff on um solitude is
interesting in this regard. So, one of the things
that Nietzsche um finds interesting is the ability for
someone to sort of move back and forth between
being Sorry, uh, being, um, deeply engaged with the
community and taking some distance from it, um. And
um, We know from contemporary, um, empirical psychology that
in, in general, people are Um, Uh, disposed towards
homophily or towards wanting to be With and only
with people who are similar to them. Um, SO
you might think that like, uh, Nietzsche would expect
people to just, um, only engage with their own
type. So if I'm this way, then I only
talk to, and I only engage with people who
are the same way. Um. He doesn't actually say
that. Uh, IN fact, he, he thinks that, um,
We can learn a lot by engaging with people
who have uh a different type. Um, AND there's
this, um, This real appreciation, um, in his work
going back all the way to the untimely meditations,
but you see it also in Daybreak and Beyond
Good and Evil, and Gay Science and elsewhere, um,
this deep appreciation of human difference, um. And I
think the The way that I would spell that
out is that um, He thinks that Seeing other
types embodied and enacted is a way of opening
up possibilities for Oneself So, if I only ever
encounter people who are already similar to me, then
I'm not going to imagine and envision other ways
that I could be. Um, AND It might be
um. Tricky, it might be challenging, it might be
uncomfortable to encounter people who are very, very different
from me, but encountering that full range opens up
a space of possibilities that, um, many of which
I will not explore, many of which I will
not end up embodying myself, but some of which
I might. Um, AND so the, the The idea
is that um Doing this purely in the abstract
is very challenging, um, whereas seeing An individual exemplar
of a type, um, shows you like, 00, this
is actually a thing that a person might be
or do. Uh, AND I think that there's something,
uh, kind of magical about that. Mhm.
And when it comes to solitude in the book,
you also talk about how we can do cultural
criticism through solitude. So tell us about that.
Um, YEAH, so, uh, I think that there is
that it's tempting in some cases to think. Um,
YOU know, we're one way, people in this other
community are a different way, um, and maybe we
can look down on them, or they look down
on us or something like that. Um, AND there's
a kind of lazy relativism that comes with that,
um, which suggests, OK, maybe we shouldn't look down
on each other. Everybody's just different. Um. When N
Nietzsche talks about solitude, he really emphasizes that it's
about um taking a critical perspective on one's in-group,
and often that is Best or most easily done
by adopting. The perspective of people from some other
group, people from some other community. So, um, I
mean, Nietzsche was also a racist. I, I acknowledge
that, um, but in his better moments, um, he
tries to adopt the perspective of, uh, Other communities,
uh, And use that perspective to turn a critical
eye on his own community, especially German speakers.
Yeah, and what is the pathos of the distance?
Uh, PATHOS of distance. Um, IT'S a phrase he
uses, if I recall correctly, um, 6 times. So
it's, um, it's not something that's super well attested,
and any interpretation of it is going to be
a bit speculative. Um, BUT, uh, the way I
understand it, it's Um, a sense for. Um, Hierarchy.
Um, SO distance for, for Nietzsche is, is a
kind of vertical distance. Um, AS opposed to kind
of a horizontal distance, and someone who embodies this
pathos of distance understands sort of where they fall,
uh, within some kind of hierarchy. So it might
be an intellectual hierarchy, it might be a political
hierarchy, um. He, he, he seems to think that
people acquire this mostly through, um, economic and political
hierarchies, and then they realize that actually those aren't
not, those are not the most important hierarchies. So
things like, um, Uh, intellectual virtue, uh, form a
hierarchy as well, and somebody who has acquired a
pathos of distance, perhaps through encountering, um, Social hierarchies,
uh, political hierarchies can then turn around and say,
wait a second, like, the things that really matter.
Rank rank people very differently from the ways that
current political or economic hierarchies do. Um, AND, you
know, in a way this is not that dissimilar
from some of the stuff that Socrates had to
say, right? He, he was constantly butting up against
the political hierarchies in Athens, um, and sort of
insisting that, well, actually, You know, these people who
are on top of society don't know what they're
talking about. Um, AND so he, he would sort
of humiliate them, um, eventually they got him to
commit suicide. So, you know, in a way, N
Nietzsche is not that dissimilar from Socrates, which is
weird because he has a lot of nasty things
to say about Socrates. But I think both of
them saw. Saw the ranking the in in in
their society as Not something to be completely done
away with, but something to be kind of overturned.
Mhm So in his work, Nietzsche uses this concept
of amorfati. Uh, TELL us about it, what it
is and how through it people can stop despising
aspects of themselves that cannot be changed.
Yeah, OK, so this is um something I, I
should have brought up earlier. So, um, Nietzsche thinks
that people have instincts that are only changeable to
some extent. Um, AND Accepting That things can change,
but they can't change too much, is the way
I would understand Amorfati. So, love of fate, uh,
I guess one is the English translation. Um, THE
idea is like, I, OK, so I have this
type, these are my drives, they can change, but
only within constraints. Um, AND so what I need
to do, if I'm going to flourish, is to,
um, Love the aspects of myself that I can't
change, and allow the other aspects of myself that
can change to change, if that will make things
better. Um So, it, it's both a a council
of um acceptance and a council of recognizing that
some things are actually ephemeral.
Right. So I have one last question then, since
we are talking about virtues here, does Nietzsche have
a met the ethical position?
Uh, YOU'RE gonna force me to do meta ethics.
I always try to avoid meta ethics, uh, but
you did warn me in advance that this might
happen. Um, It's Nietzsche's meta ethics has been interpreted
as basically every possible position under the sun. Um,
AND I'm not good at meta ethics, so I'm
a little bit, um, reluctant to, to try to
answer this question, but I would say if I,
if I had to, um, answer it, that He
has some kind of naturalist. Perspective, uh, that according
to which we should primarily recognize that we're animals
and that our flourishing is not so different from
the flourishing of dogs and cats and rabbits, and
especially other mammals, but even non-human, uh sorry, even
non-mammalian. Animals and that we should think of ourselves.
In terms of the embodiment that we Uh That
we inevitably face. Um, AND so, like the other
critters, you know, we need, uh, food and Water
and shelter and connection and All these sorts of
things. And any kind of meta ethics that points
to another world, that points to something that's outside
of mammalian embodiment is Um, it is kind of
hopeless. So I'm not sure whether he has a,
a positive meta ethics, but I think he has
at least a negative meta ethics. That says Recognize
human um Embodiment and the fact that we are
these evolved creatures.
Mhm. OK, great. So the book is again Nietzsche
on virtue. I'm leaving a link to it in
the description of the interview. And Doctor Alfano, would
you like to tell people where they can find
you and your work on the internet?
Uh, SURE, yeah. Um, I'm at alfano philosophy.com, uh,
and people can find my email there if they
want to contact me. Uh, AND I'm always happy
to chat with people all around the world. So,
um, Any questions, any thoughts, uh, don't hesitate.
Great, I'll be leaving a link to that in
the description as well, and thank you so much
for taking the time to. It was a pleasure
to talk with you.
Always nice to see you, Ricardo.
Hi guys, thank you for watching this interview until
the end. If you liked it, please share it,
leave a like and hit the subscription button. The
show is brought to you by Enlights Learning and
Development done differently. Check their website at enlights.com and
also please consider supporting the show on Patreon or
PayPal. I would also like to give a huge
thank you to my main patrons and PayPal supporters,
Perergo Larsson, Jerry Muller, Frederick Sundo, Bernard Seyaz Olaf,
Alex, Adam Cassel, Matthew Whittingbird, Arnaud Wolff, Tim Hollis,
Eric Elena, John Connors, Philip Forrest Connolly. Then Dmitri
Robert Windegeru Inasi Zu Mark Nevs, Colin Holbrookfield, Governor,
Michel Stormir, Samuel Andrea, Francis Forti Agnun, Svergoo, and
Hal Herzognon, Michel Jonathan Labrarith, John Yardston, and Samuel
Curric, Hines, Mark Smith, John Ware, Tom Hammel, Sardusran,
David Sloan Wilson, Yasilla Dezaraujo Romain Roach, Diego Londono
Correa. Yannik Puntervan Ruzmani, Charlotte Blis Nicole Barbaro, Adam
Hunt, Pavlostazevski, Alekbaka, Madison, Gary G. Alman, Semov, Zal
Adrian Yei Poltonin, John Barboza, Julian Price, Edward Hall,
Eddin Bronner, Douglas Fry, Franco Bartolatti, Gabriel P Scortez
or Suliliski, Scott Zachary Fish, Tim Duffyanny Smith and
Wiseman. Daniel Friedman, William Buckner, Paul Georg Jarno, Luke
Lovai, Georgios Theophanus, Chris Williamson, Peter Wolozin, David Williams,
Di Acosta, Anton Ericsson, Charles Murray, Alex Shaw, Marie
Martinez, Coralli Chevalier, Bangalore atheists, Larry D. Lee Jr.
Old Eringbon. Esterri, Michael Bailey, then Spurber, Robert Grassy,
Zigoren, Jeff McMahon, Jake Zul, Barnabas Raddix, Mark Kempel,
Thomas Dovner, Luke Neeson, Chris Story, Kimberly Johnson, Benjamin
Galbert, Jessica Nowicki, Linda Brendan, Nicholas Carlson, Ismael Bensleyman.
George Ekoriati, Valentine Steinmann, Per Crawley, Kate Van Goler,
Alexander Ebert, Liam Dunaway, BR, Massoud Ali Mohammadi, Perpendicular,
Jannes Hetner, Ursula Guinov, Gregory Hastings, David Pinsov, Sean
Nelson, Mike Levin, and Jos Necht. A special thanks
to my producers Iar Webb, Jim Frank Lucas Stinnik,
Tom Vanneden, Bernardine Curtis Dixon, Benedict Mueller, Thomas Trumbull,
Catherine and Patrick Tobin, John Carlo Montenegro, Al Nick
Cortiz, and Nick Golden, and to my executive producers,
Matthew Lavender, Sergio Quadrian, Bogdan Kanis, and Rosie. Thank
you for all.